What I'd like to
do now is outline
some of the benefits
of Java streams.
So there's a number of things
that are really beneficial when
you use streams.
First and foremost, we're
going to use a case study
example to illustrate
the benefits here.
This is a case study example
we'll talk about later.
This case study
example downloads,
transforms, stores, and
displays images using a variety
of different techniques.
It can use sequential streams.
It can use parallel streams.
It can use completable
futures in conjunction
with sequential streams,
and so on and so forth.
For the moment, we're
just going to focus
on the stream implementation.
And as you can see
here, what we do
is we turn the input, which
is basically a list of URLs,
into a stream of URLs.
We go ahead and omit
from that stream of URLs
any URL we've already
downloaded and cached earlier.
And then we go ahead and
take the non-cached URLs,
and we download them.
And then we go ahead and
apply various filters
that transform the image.
You can do things like red eye
removal or sharpen or emboss
or whatever you want to do.
And we finally collect all
the results up into a list.
So that's basically
what the program does.
The use of streams for
this kind of programming
leads to a number of benefits.
First and foremost, it's
concise and readable.
The streams model,
as you can see here,
is a so-called
declarative paradigm,
because it's functional.
So it focuses on what
functions to perform,
such as downloading the image or
applying the filters and so on,
rather than how those
functions are performed.
The how, of course,
is important.
But that's done kind
of under the hood
as part of the behavior
implementations.
So you can read this
thing top to bottom.
It's very concise.
It's very readable.
One of the things that I
like about the streams model
is it doesn't expose any
control flow operations.
You don't see any loops.
You don't see any if statements
or switch statements.
You just see a pipeline of
behaviors that are applied.
And you can read this
thing from top to bottom.
So it really focuses
on what's important
and leaves the
implementations where they
belong in the implementation.
Another benefit
of Java streams is
that they are very
flexible and composable.
Functions can be automatically
connected together
by the streams
programming model.
In particular, as you
see here, the output
from the filter
intermediate operation
is then passed as the input to
the map intermediate operation,
which is the next
element in the stream.
And it's very simple to go
ahead and reconnect the stream
if you want in order to be
able to do different things.
You can add different behaviors.
You can rearrange the
ordering if necessary.
It's very flexible, very easy to
change, very easy to recompose.
And of course,
another key benefit,
which we started alluding to
in the previous discussion
about parallel streams, is it's
really straightforward, often,
to scale the program.
So scalability is
simplified, because you
can paralyze the
behavior of the stream
simply by going from
stream to parallel stream
as the factory method.
And there's no need to have to
write any multi-threaded code
at all, which, of course,
is a huge, huge win.
Under the hood, the
Java ForkJoinPool
is used to process all
the different behaviors
and parallelism.
That's something that's really
largely hidden from you.
We'll talk about
this in a little bit
when we discuss the way in
which Java parallel streams
internals are structured.
But for right now, you
don't really have to know
or care that this is happening.
It just kind of happens
as a side effect
of using parallel streams.
The parallel streams framework,
in conjunction, of course,
with the ForkJoinPool
framework, will automatically
map the data in
the stream elements
to the underlying
processor cores.
And we'll also see
later that there's
all kinds of clever ways
that you can get control
over the number
of cores that are
available to process
the data that's
flowing through the stream.
And we'll talk about that when
we talk about parallel streams.
We'll also talk about
that when we talk more
about the ForkJoinPool
framework.